CodeBook for coursera-getdata-005
=================================


## Overview

This file describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work
that was performed to clean up the data.

There are two tidy data after data cleaning on the raw data, stored in file
`tidy_data_1.txt` and `tidy_data_2.txt`. Both files could be generated by
command `Rscript run_analysis.R` and loaded in future by R function
`read.delim()` or `fread()` in `data.table` package.


## First Tidy Data Set

The first tidy data set (`tidy_data_1.txt`) was extracted only the measurements
on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.

The first column (named 'train') is a logical vector which indicate whether the
data is belong to training set (value is TRUE) or test set (value is FALSE).

The second column (named 'subject') is a integer vector which indicate the
volunteer subject, numbered from 1 to 30.

The third column (named 'activity') is a factor vector which indicate the
activity of the volunteer subject did when measure the data. There are six
values in this column: `WALKING`, `WALKING_UPSTAIRS`, `WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS`,
`SITTING`, `STANDING`, `LAYING`.

The rest columns (from the fourth column on) are some selected features for
analysis.  These features are self-explained by their names. Substrings "Mean"
or "Std" in their names indicate that the variable is mean or standard
deviation of the measurement.

More information about the features could be found in `features_info.txt` of
the raw data.


## Second Tidy Data Set

The second tidy data set (`tidy_data_2.txt`) was aggregated from the first tidy
data set.

The first column (named 'subject') is the volunteer subject number, the same as
'subject' column of first tidy data set.

The second column (named 'activity') is the activity of the volunteer subject
did when meansure the data, also the same as 'activity' column of first tidy
data set.

The rest columns (from the third column on) are means of features mentioned in
the first tidy data set of each group, which are aggregated by both 'subject'
and 'activity'.
